Coming up next is the Science Fiction Radio Show, so stay with us.
No, the radio station hasn't queued up the wrong program. This is Daryl Lane.
And David Carson, and this is the Science Fiction Radio Show.
Many of you undoubtedly recognize the music as being from Jim Henson's new movie, The Dark Crystal.
The music was composed by Trevor Jones and performed by the London Symphony Orchestra.
It's a fantasy film in which the heroes, two elfin-like creatures called gelflings,
have to overcome some almost insurmountable tasks in order to keep the evil Skexus from taking over the world.
The Skexus were not always evil. In fact, they weren't always called the Skexus.
They were once called the Urskex, but in trying to become totally good, the Urskex made a terrible mistake.
This caused them to be split into the Uru who are good and the Skexus who are evil.
And in their first rage, the Skexus broke a piece from a magical crystal,
and the world of the Uru, Skexus, and gelflings became dark.
And replacing the missing piece of the crystal is the quest the gelflings undertake.
The creatures used in the movie are much like the one used in the movie E.T., The Extraterrestrial.
Except that Henson's crew had dozens of creatures all on the screen at the same time,
which made performing them somewhat difficult at times.
Henson tells us that things weren't quite as drastic as in filming the Muppet movie,
where he was sealed up in a watertight drum and lowered into the swamp in order to perform Kermit singing on a lock.
We never had anything that was quite claustrophobic.
Unfortunately, I'm not a claustrophobic person, so I don't mind being squinted into a small space.
But in the Muppet movie, in the Great Muppet Caper, we would very often find ourselves in a situation
where we were out in the real world, like riding in a taxi cab, where there might be three or four of us jammed underneath
where the seat would have been in a regular automobile.
But since this film was all in a fantasy world, which was designed for us to operate in,
we virtually never had that same kind of discomfort.
So all of our sets were designed with knowing that we wanted to be able to get underneath the ground
or through a rock wall.
So all of it was designed with trapdoors or areas that could be removed.
The design and construction by Henson's group and artist Brian Froud is quite an interesting process also.
Brian would do an original sketch, and then we would turn that, we would go to a,
have one of our sculptors then sculpt the figure, and then we would mock it up so that we could manipulate it.
And then we would try moving this thing. These things moved in different ways.
We would videotape a test, and then we'd all sit around and look at the test and decide what should be done about it.
And then Brian would normally redesign the character, you know, the whole process would begin again.
Jim Hanson's new movie, The Dark Crystal, is quite a remarkable achievement. Go see for yourself.
This has been the Science Fiction Radio Show, a production of the Permian Basin Science Fiction Association
produced in conjunction with Odessa College in Odessa, Texas.